So instead of doing something like this,
bringing the data I can do that,
but instead of doing that,
I can use the service worker, okay?
So, the next step is to start
talking about the service worker.
So the service worker
is a JavaScript thread.
That we install, we register in
users browsers, in users device, I
will give you a quick and dirty definition
that most developers don't like.
Mostly if you have experienced with
service worker, but if you have never
worked with service workers before you
understand really quickly what it is.
It's my definition quick and dirty.
A service worker is a web server
that we install client side or
we install on user's
device that will serve or
can serve files only for
our machine, only for our PWA.
So if you think about that definition
that is not technically 100% true, but
if you have never played
with service worker before,
it gives you a quick idea because
now it will impersonate your server.
So it's sitting in the middle
between your PWA and your server,
even cross-domain servers.
So every time the PWA is requesting
a file from your server,
the service worker is there in the middle
and it says let me see what do you want?
PNG lemme see, the service worker looks in
the back in the cache and it says yeah,
I have that okay,
here you have the PNG requested,
the image, the cappuccino image.
And the server now is never hidden,
in that situation is never
hid by an HTTP request.
Because the service worker act
in the name of the server, okay,
of course that's not mandatory.
You write the service worker and
you decide what the service worker is
going to do and how, okay, makes sense?
Well, so the next step is to
write our first service worker.
So we need to create
the service worker file, but
please don't create that
file in the scripts folder.
If you do that,
that's gonna be the, script folder,
it's gonna be the scope of your service
worker and your service worker will
be able to render content or
to serve content only from that folder.
So that's why I'm going to create a new
Finder root folder with the name sw or
serviceworker.js.
It's up to you any name will work and
here we need to write
some code to actually do
that serve operation, okay?
We're going to be a server now or
a proxy and we are going to
use the cache to see if the file that we
need is actually in the cache or not.
So, from the service worker,
we are going to add an event listener
over the self option with the name fetch.
So every time my PWA is
making an HTTP request,
this event will be fired,
okay, every time, right?
So, from here we are going
to call event.respondWith.
RespondWith, so
we're going to respond with something.
RespondWith receives a promise or
a function returning a promise.
So from here, I can do something
similar to what I did before,
creating an immediately executable
async function something like this.
It can be a real function or not it's
just the same and here I can go and
try to see if the request,
the request is available event.request.
Okay, so
I can try to see if it's in the cache.
Remember, this event is going to re fire
every time my website needs
a resource from the web,
from anywhere, my server or other server.
So remember, we are actually here,
the PWA needs
something from my server or
from a CDN, I'm in the middle.
I'm catching that request and
I can say, okay, let's see what you do.
So we're writing code there, okay?
So, back here,
then I'm going to talk to my cache first,
so lemme remove this for a second,
we're going back there later.
So we're going to try to see
if there is a cached response,
lemme hide the panel for a second because
this is going to be a large line.
I'm going to wait for caches.match,
again caches.match opens all or
checks over all the caches
available in my origin.
If you don't wanna check on every cache,
you can first open
the cache with the name and
then do a match, match is search, okay?
It's checking if it can
find that request and
we saw before that if it's not in
the cache it gives me undefined, right?
So I'm going to check if it exists,
if it exists it means that
we do have a cache response.
So I'm going to return
that object to whom,
I'm going to return this to respond with,
okay?
So we are responding with
the cash response, make sense?
And if not, if it's not the cache,
I'm going to return a fetch, so
I'm actually saying, hey,
we need to go to a network because we
don't have this resource here in cache.
So if the file that you're
requesting is not in the cache,
what's happening is I'm
responding with a fetch.
That's the code,
is the code making sense, kind of?
This file the service worker,
is still not attached to my website.
Okay, so we still need to register
that file, but before doing that,
I wanna show you a diagram to see
if you can finally understand
what's going on with the algorithm
that we have just coded.
So, your PWA is making a request, right?
The service worker is
catching that request, so
it's not going directly to the network,
is catching the request it first.
So step two, is searching in the cache,
in the cache's storage, right?
If it's a cache hit, so it's there,
it's responding with that
cache response to the PWA.
And if it's a cache miss, so
it's not in the cache, it's responding
with a network request that finally
will get back to the PWA, make sense?
That's the algorithm that
we have just created.
So, now that we understand what's the
idea, let's register the service worker.
So I'm going back to VS code and
let's go to app.js.
And any place,
we're going to go navigator.serviceWorker,
be careful with capital W, register and
the name of the service worker
file that I have just created.
That's all, with that, okay,
we are specifying that we wanna
install that server, okay?
That proxy.
So going back to my browser, I'm going to
refresh, how do I know if this is working?
Well first,
there was something that was really small,
probably you haven't seen that.
You didn't even realize that there is
something new from the previous runs.
I do have this icon here, not sure if
you realize, it wasn't there before,
believe me, it wasn't there before,
what is that icon?
The PWA installation icon on desktop.
Chrome or Chromium, so that's also Edge,
on desktop, when you have a PWA and
you have a service worker, you are passing
what is known as a PWA criteria.
And it's inviting the user
to install the PWA now,
because it feels now your
app will work offline.
So it says, okay, you are following
all the requirements for the PWA.
This is changing from Chrome 109 or
it will change probably from Chrome 109,
from Chrome 109 or 110.
They are changing these requirements and
now you will see that icon even if
you don't have a service worker, so
service worker won't be mandatory for
PWA's in a couple of months.
Okay, so that's new.
Anyway, if I actually see my service
worker, I can go to the application tab.
And the one where we were seeing
the storages, and if we scroll to the top,
there is a section for service workers.
And if I click there I can see that I have
a service worker, that is activated and
running right now.
That means that now my images,
it's difficult to see that,
are my images being served from
the service worker or from the network?
How do I know?
One way to know,
is opening the network tab.
In the network tab, where you see all the
resources, okay, there is a size column.
Don't ask me why it's in the size
column because it makes no sense.
But in the size columns, it will tell you
which assets were actually delivered from
the service worker and
not from the network.
And you will see that on my PNG files,
were served from the service worker.
Not the .js file or API.js file, why?
Because it's not in the service worker.
By the way, you can always go
back to the application tab,
I should move it, you can drag tabs,
I'm not sure if you know that.
So I can drag the application tab there,
I can go to storage and
you can see now that I have 1
megabytes in cache storage,
45k in indexedDB and
some bytes on the service worker.
Right now my quota usage is 1.2 megabytes,
but I can clear everything,
so if you clear everything now,
there is no service worker,
there are no IndexedDB no cache storage,
nothing.
It's like the first time
I'm visiting the website.
So if I reload, now things were not
coming from the service worker, okay?
So if I go into the network, you can
see in the size column that you won't
see service worker because the first
time you access the website,
you don't have the service worker,
you don't have storage.
But if I refresh now again,
I should see the difference and
now images are coming
from the service worker.
So the logic is kind of working.